# Ticker Tracker 500
A simple application for checking the current status of stock symbols on the S&P500.

## Building the Project

1. Clone the git repository
```
git clone https://github.com/Ry-Fy/ticker-tracker-500
```
2. Install the project's npm packages
```
npm install
```
3. Run the build command
```
npm run build
```
5. Start the server
```
node ./dist/server.js
```

## Areas For Further Development
1. Unit Tests
	* A series of unit tests for all JavaScript functions in the solution could be written using a common unit-testing library (such as Jasmine) and a test runner (such as Karma).
	* User interface testing of the React components themselves could be introduced using AirBnB's library: Enzyme. Enzyme's ability to mount or shallow-render React components makes it useful for getting quick verification of the HTML generated by the compiled React components without the need for a headless browser.
2. Discreet styles
	* Most of the explicit styling for this project has been in-lined. Although there are reasons why keeping the styles close to a component is beneficial, inline style tags is not a long-term sustainable way of achieving this. If the project were to continue to grow, custom SCSS should be added to allow for more flexible styles via shared color/styling variables, importable classes, and mixins.
3. Pagination
	* For larger queries (such as the initial load of all symbols in the S&P 500), the user may benefit from seeing only a subset of symbols on the screen at once. Implementing a skip/take on all queries which retrieve symbols from the server and adding next/prev buttons to the page could facilitate this.
	*  This also serves the function of reducing average data load times for the user, since smaller and more restrictive queries are more likely to come back quickly from YQL than broader queries. 
4. Removal of reliance on a pre-saved symbols const
	* The sp500symbols.ts file was a quick way to get every symbol in the S&P500 into the solution. If a query could be constructed that hit a public API to get every symbol in the S&P500, it would invalidate the need for these hard-coded values.
	* Sadly, the YQL data endpoing does not allow keywords such as MS-SQL's "LIKE" constraint. As such, there is no way to submit a query to the YQL endpoint itself for symbols which match the user's input. If a different endpoint could be accessed which allowed for such a thing, there would be no need to have any pre-determined stock symbols.
5. Live reloading
	* Either allowing the user to manually reload the prices for the symbols on the screen or doing so automatically after a timeout would allow the tool to be more useful for viewing stock information during market hours.
6. Symbol price caching
	* This tool is not a Bloomberg terminal. By virtue of being primarily based on the YQL data endpoint, it cannot be 100% accurate and up to date. As such, caching recently retrieved stock prices in memory of the server application with a timeout of 5 or so minutes would be appropriate.
	* Doing so would serve to reduce the average data load times for the user, since no round-trip requests would need to be made of YQL in order to retrieve recent data.
7. Clustering
	* NodeJS (and by extension: Express) are single-threaded processes. NodeJS does, however, facilitate a clustering library which would allow for multiple instances of the server to be spun up in a cluster. These instances can be controlled in a master-slave configuration to allow the application to make better use of the processing resources available to it.